All right guys in this video I want to just show you how to quickly create a CSX drop down menu.
So we're going to create this right here.
Basically it's just we're focusing on the menu.
And when we hit services you'll see that we get this drop down.
We hit blog.
We get a dropdown we also have this.
This area over here which displays the number of posts.
I figured it was just a nice addition and then we just have a simple showcase here and you could go
on to to add to this if you wanted to.
But the main focus is how to get it.
Show you how to get this dropdown effect.
And I made it semi responsive so you'll see that when we hit a certain point six and our pixels they'll
they'll display block and we hover over it.
We'll get this as the sub menu.
OK.
So it'll basically just push the rest of the links down and show the sub menu here.
All right.
So let's get started.
I just have a folder called dropdown.
I'm going to create an index on each t amount and let's also create a style dot CSX generate our boilerplate
here close that up and let's say CSX drop down menu and let's put in our style sheet
and then we're also gonna use font awesome for these little arrows right here.
So I'm just gonna go to font font awesome dot com start using free and we're going to grab this link
right here.
Paste that in.
So now what we're gonna do is go down to the body and we're going to start to create our each team how
our markup body whatever you want to call it.
So we're gonna have a nav tag and I'm going to give us an idea of Navarre and inside here we'll have
a well we're gonna have an ally with a tag and this will be the home Home Link and I want to copy this
down this one will be about and then the next one is gonna be services.
However this is gonna be the dropdown.
Now I'm not going to have this be a link so I'm going to get rid of the a tag.
I mean you could if you wanted to but I'm just going to have just the text and then we'll have the drop
downs and I'm going to put the icon next to it.
So that's I with a class of F.A. s and then F A Dash angle dash down.
So that'll give us the icon.
And then after that we're gonna put a nested list so another you l and let's do ally and a tag and this
is gonna be web development and we'll just copy this down a couple times.
This next one will be let's say website design and this one here is gonna be mobile development
and then let's do SEO.
OK.
And then the next one is gonna be the blog which is also a dropdown.
So we want to go after this list item after the services and we're gonna say blog.
And again we want our icons so F.A. S F A Dash angle dash down and we're gonna put you all once again
and let's put a list item within a tag and this is gonna be h t email now we're gonna have that that
the post number as well so we're gonna put that in a span so we'll say span twenty two posts.
All right.
I'm going to copy this down.
Let's do that's one two three four five six and we can just change these numbers up to whatever you
want
OK I'll do 21 and let's change these up so we'll do CSX
Javascript
Python on page P. and we'll do one called Design.
OK.
And then after the list item we'll do one more.
And this is just going to be two.
It's gonna be the contact link so contact.
All right.
So that's our menu let's save it.
Let's take a look it's going to look horrible.
So it's just dial and a list an unordered list with some nested unordered lists.
So let's jump into our CSX and let's turn this into this.
So we'll start off with just a general reset of the margin and padding
and let's do box sizing.
Bought a box and then let's do our body and a lot of time just see each team and body like that.
And for this we're gonna have a background let's do a background color of light grey and let's set a
font family let's do aerial
All right.
Now we're gonna work on the nav bar so it's two now bar
the now bar itself isn't going to have anything but we're gonna take the well we're going to do list
style none.
OK make sure there's no bullets.
Then we're going to deal with the list items themselves.
Basically all list items so let's do now.
Bar you well ally and we're gonna set the color to dark grey which if I save it it's only going to affect
the ones that are not linked because we have to color the links separately.
Now we want to display each of these as an inline block OK so if we do that they'll go side by side.
We'll do some padding so we'll save one room of padding.
And we also want to position relative K basically the way that the drop downs are going to work is they're
gonna be positioned absolute inside of this inside of the the the top ally as a container.
OK.
That way we can position it and we can add it so that we can make it so that it comes down on hover.
Now let's color the links so I'm going to just grab this here and say a color will be dark grey and
let's take away the underline so text decoration is going to be none.
OK.
Now we want to we want to hide the nested you ls by default so basically anything that's in a dropdown
we don't want that to show by default.
So let me just put a comment here or say hide hide nested well by default and we can target that by
doing nav bar u l l y you well OK.
Because we're grabbing the unordered lists that are inside the allies and we're gonna set that to display
none and save.
And now those all go away.
All right so let's see.
We'll go ahead and
if I hover over these we get and we get the cursor take changes to a pointer but not on these because
these are not links.
But I want I want a cursor on these women only hover so let's do nav bar you l l I hover and let's do
cursor pointer and I also want the background to be a different color.
So let's do background coral and let's do color whites and save.
OK.
So the color white is not showing on the links but it is on the text because we have no links we have
to target the color separately so let's just take this and say when we hover we also want the links
to have the color of white.
So now when I hover over any of them whether it's actual link or just text we get the white color.
Now when we hover over these here we want the draw we want the nested yells to show.
So let's do that.
Let's say nested
dropdown show.
So we're gonna do nav bar you l l I hover and we want the well inside of that to show.
So remember.
We set it to display none by default.
So now we're gonna set it to display block.
So now if I hover over it we're going to we're going to see it but it's going to it's it's just crazy
so we're gonna fix this up.
Let's go ahead and let's do a position of absolute.
And we're going to we're going to say from the left zero.
And let's set a width to be 200 pixels and if you guys want to mess with this a little bit you can.
And then I'm gonna do a margin top of one room all right.
So we check it out.
You can see that at least it's positioned underneath.
It's going to be 200 pixels wide.
There's no background though so let's target each list item
I'm going to grab this right here we just did and we're gonna target the list item on hover and we're
gonna say display block
and we're gonna add a background and let's to e we'll do e seven three times.
And now if we hover you can see that it has the background however the lengths are white still so we
want to target the tag when we hover.
So it's to ally a and let's set the color to 3 3 3.
So now the links are dark.
Now we also want a hover a color for these if we hover over that.
So we'll have to do see we'll have to do this.
So when we hover over the top ally we want we're going to target the hover of the nested allies like
that and let's do a background
and we're gonna do e 0 3 times and make sure the color.
Well we shouldn't have to do that.
Well we could do two color inherit
all right.
So we'll save.
And now we have that lighter color.
I'm sorry a darker color.
When we hover over these.
All right.
So that's starting to shape up.
Now let's deal with the spans these 22 these posts right here we want these to have a coral background.
I also want the color to change for those when they're hovered over.
So let's target this.
The span remember we put those in a span.
So we want this now.
Bar you al ally hover you al ally in the span.
So like that and we'll say span we want that to actually float to the right and we're going to make
the color white in the background coral.
OK.
We're going to add a little bit of padding.
We'll do zero point two REM top and bottom zero point five REM left and right.
Let's text align to the center and let's make the font size a little smaller we'll do zero point eight
RAM and let's round the corners a little bit.
So border radius and we'll do five pixels.
OK so let's save that.
Take a look.
Good.
And I think that's what I also want them to change color a little bit.
So let's let's grab this.
But let's say on the list item hover OK so the inner list item hover.
We want the span background to change too.
Let's do chocolate which is pretty close to coral.
So as we hover over it now you can see the background of those change.
All right.
So it's pretty good.
Now what I'm going to do and if you want to add a background to the now bar you can do that as well.
But I'm going to add our showcase area right underneath.
So did I already add it.
No I didn't.
So in the aged here now it's going to be very simple.
I'm just going to go under the NAV input a let's do a header showcase and all I'm going to put in here
is an H one and just say your Web site here and we'll go back to our style sheet and let's grab on to
the showcase
and let's set up actually knowing what we're gonna do is I'm going to display this as a flex column.
So display flex flex direction is gonna be column and for the height I'm just gonna do three hundred
pixels and then let's align everything that at the center so we'll say a line items center justify content
center text align center and let's do padding zero and two to ram on the left and right.
Let's go ahead semicolon there.
All right.
So we'll save that.
Oh I didn't add the background
so let's add background coral
all right.
Actually you know what.
Let's put the let's put that in there in a variable the color.
So we'll say for the root scope let's do primary color.
There's gonna be coral and then we'll just change this to var dash dash primary color.
Grab that and go down here.
Place that that way it's easy to change the color and then we could use this as a secondary color
so up here we'll say a secondary color
chocolate
all right.
And then for the H one in the showcase
let's make it color white and let's make the font size.
Let's do four REM.
Here we go.
So I have the showcase matching the hover state which I like.
I like that in fact and if you're on a certain page you can do like a current current class and have
it like that.
So it actually looks like it's kind of part of the showcase.
All right.
So let's let's deal with the responsiveness because right now if we go like right here it's I mean it
goes off the screen so I'm just gonna do a quick solution for this and let's add a media query with
a max width of 600 pixels and we're just going to take the nav bar you all ally and instead of displaying
inline block we're gonna display block.
That way they go on top of each other.
All right.
And then let's see we're going to take the the nested well on hover and we're going to set it to a width
of one hundred percent and also position it relative.
Right now it's two hundred pixels wide and it's position absolute which means it just goes over the
rest of the content and we can't see the rest of the menu items.
I want it to basically just push everything down.
So we're gonna say nav bar you al ally hover somewhere hover over it.
We want the well to have a with of 100 percent and we want the position to go from absolute to relative.
OK.
We'll save that.
And now when we hover over it we get all of our sub items and we can still go to the next one we can
see all the menu items still.
OK.
So I mean it's not really the best looking thing in the world but it is a solution for you know if you're
for smaller screens.
But yeah.
That's gonna be a guys a lot of these dropdown menus will involve javascript but I'm trying not to get
into too much javascript cause I don't want it because I want to focus on each team LCROSS and how you
can do things with just those in it and I've mentioned it before that I do have a modern javascript
from the beginning course on you to me as well but that's it hopefully you enjoy this little project
it's just something that I thought of that I think should be included in the course is how to create
these little drop downs.
And of course as there's many other ways to do it.
But this is one and I think it's pretty pretty easy but that's it.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.